_note/cold_atom.md, before:

---
title: "Course Notes: Cold Atom Physics"
layout: single
author_profile: false
excerpt: "Course notes for Ultra Cold Atom Physics (2025 Fall, at Tsinghua). PDF list included."
---

<div style="float:right; width:280px; margin:0 0 1rem 1.5rem; border:2px solid #9ca3af; background:#f3f4f6; padding:12px; border-radius:8px; font-size:0.9em; color:#374151;">
  <img src="/images/notes_images/Cold_Atom_Pic.png" alt="Notes" style="width:100%; border-radius:6px; margin-bottom:10px;">
  <strong>Cold Atom Physics</strong><br>
  Ultracold atomic physics explores gases of atoms cooled to near absolute zero, where quantum mechanics unfolds on a macroscopic scale. With exquisite experimental control, these systems offer a uniquely elegant platform for revealing the beauty of many-body quantum phenomena.<br><br>
  <em>Course notes; may contain mistakes.</em>
</div>

These are my course notes for *Cold Atom Physics* taught by Prof. Hui Zhai at Tsinghua University.

The course follows, at least in part, the textbook [*Ultracold Atomic Physics*](https://www.cambridge.org/core/books/ultracold-atomic-physics/F47F9C80F9AF593E66A1942B0EA513C4) by Cambridge University Press. My notes mainly supplement the derivations omitted in the textbook, along with some of my own interpretations and insights.

## Notes (PDF)

- [Bose_Einstein_Condensation](/files/notes/Bose_Einstein_Condensation.pdf)
- [Bose_Hydrodynamic_Theory](/files/notes/Bose_Hydrodynamic_Theory.pdf)
- [Bogoliubov_Theory](/files/notes/Bogoliubov_Theory.pdf)
- [Topology_in_BEC](/files/notes/Topology_in_BEC.pdf)
- [Spinor_BEC](/files/notes/Spinor_BEC.pdf)
- [Bosonic_Double_Well](/files/notes/Bosonic_Double_Well.pdf)
- [Fermi_Liquids](/files/notes/Fermi_Liquids.pdf)
- [BCS_Theory](/files/notes/BCS_Theory.pdf)
- [BCS_BEC_Crossover](/files/notes/BCS_BEC_Crossover.pdf)
- [Topological_Band_Theory](/files/notes/Topological_Band_Theory.pdf)
- [Bose_Hubbard_Model](/files/notes/Bose_Hubbard_Model.pdf)
- [Fermi_Hubbard_Model](/files/notes/Fermi_Hubbard_Model.pdf)

<div style="clear:both;"></div>

Commit message:

Update course notes for Cold Atom Physics
Removed PDF list mention from excerpt and added personal reflections on the course and study companions.

_note/cold_atom.md, after:

---
title: "Course Notes: Cold Atom Physics"
layout: single
author_profile: false
excerpt: "Course notes for Ultra Cold Atom Physics (2025 Fall, at Tsinghua)."
---

<div style="float:right; width:280px; margin:0 0 1rem 1.5rem; border:2px solid #9ca3af; background:#f3f4f6; padding:12px; border-radius:8px; font-size:0.9em; color:#374151;">
  <img src="/images/notes_images/Cold_Atom_Pic.png" alt="Notes" style="width:100%; border-radius:6px; margin-bottom:10px;">
  <strong>Cold Atom Physics</strong><br>
  Ultracold atomic physics explores gases of atoms cooled to near absolute zero, where quantum mechanics unfolds on a macroscopic scale. With exquisite experimental control, these systems offer a uniquely elegant platform for revealing the beauty of many-body quantum phenomena.<br><br>
  <em>Course notes; may contain mistakes.</em>
</div>

These are my course notes for *Cold Atom Physics* taught by Prof. Hui Zhai at Tsinghua University.

The course follows, at least in part, the textbook [*Ultracold Atomic Physics*](https://www.cambridge.org/core/books/ultracold-atomic-physics/F47F9C80F9AF593E66A1942B0EA513C4) by Cambridge University Press. My notes mainly supplement the derivations omitted in the textbook, along with some of my own interpretations and insights.

Prof. Zhai’s lectures place strong emphasis on building physical intuition. The logic is very clear, and the approach is also quite modern. I would highly recommend his [recorded lectures on Bilibili](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1zB4y1j7C2/?spm_id_from=333.337.search-card.all.click&vd_source=73494360b179bedd2c175423636b0e7b).

In addition, I appreciate the companionship of my friends, Chu-Tao and Jing-You. Studying together has been a genuinely joyful experience.

## Notes (PDF)

- [Bose_Einstein_Condensation](/files/notes/Bose_Einstein_Condensation.pdf)
- [Bose_Hydrodynamic_Theory](/files/notes/Bose_Hydrodynamic_Theory.pdf)
- [Bogoliubov_Theory](/files/notes/Bogoliubov_Theory.pdf)
- [Topology_in_BEC](/files/notes/Topology_in_BEC.pdf)
- [Spinor_BEC](/files/notes/Spinor_BEC.pdf)
- [Bosonic_Double_Well](/files/notes/Bosonic_Double_Well.pdf)
- [Fermi_Liquids](/files/notes/Fermi_Liquids.pdf)
- [BCS_Theory](/files/notes/BCS_Theory.pdf)
- [BCS_BEC_Crossover](/files/notes/BCS_BEC_Crossover.pdf)
- [Topological_Band_Theory](/files/notes/Topological_Band_Theory.pdf)
- [Bose_Hubbard_Model](/files/notes/Bose_Hubbard_Model.pdf)
- [Fermi_Hubbard_Model](/files/notes/Fermi_Hubbard_Model.pdf)

<div style="clear:both;"></div>
