_publications/2025_6_KagomeDimers.md, before:

---
title: "Engineering Resonating Kagome Dimer coverings in Rydberg atom arrays"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2025-06-26-resonating-kagome-dimer-coverings
excerpt: 'We study uniform quantum superpositions of kagome dimer configurations motivated by Rydberg atom arrays, and develop an efficient state-preparation protocol based on matrix-product representations.'
date: 2025-06-26
venue: 'Physical Review A (accepted); arXiv:2506.21255'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.21255'
---

**Accepted by *Physical Review A*.** 

Preprint: [arXiv:2506.21255](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.21255). 

Motivated by experiments on Rydberg atom arrays, we explore uniform quantum superpositions of kagome dimer configurations and construct an efficient algorithm for experimentally producing them. We analyze the thin-cylinder limit and then develop a matrix product representation on arbitrary cylinders, leading to a natural protocol to efficiently grow these states.

<p align="center">
  <img src="/images/rk-dimer-figure1.png" width="70%">
</p>

*Figure 1. Engineering resonating kagome dimer coverings in a kagome Rydberg atom array.*

Commit message:

Revise publication details for Kagome Dimer study
Updated the excerpt and main text to reflect new findings and algorithm improvements related to Rydberg-atom experiments and tensor-network representations.

_publications/2025_6_KagomeDimers.md, after:

---
title: "Engineering Resonating Kagome Dimer coverings in Rydberg atom arrays"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2025-06-26-resonating-kagome-dimer-coverings
excerpt: 'Motivated by Rydberg-atom experiments, we studied tensor-network representations of the Rokhsar–Kivelson state on the kagome lattice, and designed a novel sequential generation algorithm, which is more efficient and experimentally friendly than existing approaches.'
date: 2025-06-26
venue: 'Physical Review A (accepted); arXiv:2506.21255'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.21255'
---

**Accepted by *Physical Review A*.** 

Preprint: [arXiv:2506.21255](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.21255). 

Motivated by Rydberg-atom experiments, we studied tensor-network representations of the Rokhsar–Kivelson state on the kagome lattice, and designed a novel sequential generation algorithm, which is more efficient and experimentally friendly than existing approaches.

<p align="center">
  <img src="/images/rk-dimer-figure1.png" width="70%">
</p>

*Figure 1. Engineering resonating kagome dimer coverings in a kagome Rydberg atom array.*
